Thank you for submitting a pull request! Please keep in mind that lesson
maintainers are volunteers and it may be some time before they can respond to
your contribution. Although not all contributions can be incorporated into the
lesson materials, we appreciate your time and effort to improve the curriculum.
If you have any questions about the lesson maintenance process or would like to
volunteer your time as a contribution reviewer, please contact Kate Hertweck
(k8hertweck@gmail.com).

If this contribution is for instructor training, please send an email to
checkout@carpentries.org with a link to this contribution so we can record your
progress. You’ve completed your contribution step for instructor checkout just
by submitting this contribution.

---

To make the review of your pull request easier, we kindly ask that you try to follow the recommendations listed in our [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md), and tick the checkboxes bellow (by adding a 'x' inside the square bracket).

However, if you have questions, or are unsure on how to do something, you can either (1) open an issue to ask your question, (2) send the lesson maintainers an email (francois.michonneau@gmail.com and/or aurielfournier@gmail.com), or (3) indicate in your pull request what you are concerned about.

Please confirm that:

- [ ] I have read & followed (the best I could) the [instructions to contributors](/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] I have used the correct formatting


- [ ] This pull request refers to discussion in #[remove square brackets and
  insert issue number] (if appropriate).

If you are proposing a **change to one of the lessons**, please confirm that:

- [ ] I am only committing the `.Rmd` file (the `md` and `html` files will be
generated by the lesson maintainer)

If you are **providing a new challenge**, please confirm that:

- [ ] I am also providing the solution

Please briefly note the changes proposed in this pull request:
.
