# Contributing New Material

Data Carpentry is an open source project, and we welcome
contributions of all kinds: new and improved lessons, bug reports,
and small fixes to existing material are all useful.

By contributing, you are agreeing that Data Carpentry may
redistribute your work under [these licenses](LICENSE.md).


**Table of Contents**

*   [Working With GitHub](#working-with-github)
*   [File Locations and Formats](#file-locations-and-formats)
*   [FAQ](#faq)


## Working With GitHub

**NOTE: this repository uses `gh-pages` as our default branch.**

1.  Fork the `datacarpentry/R-ecology-lesson` repository on GitHub.

2.  Clone that repository to your own machine. (It is also possible
    to make minor edits right on GitHub.)

3.  Create a branch from `gh-pages` for your changes.
    Give your branch a meaningful name,
    such as `fixing-typos-r-ecology-lesson`
    or `adding-tutorial-on-visualization`.

4.  Make your changes, commit them, and push them to your
    repository on GitHub.
    If your change affects a lesson, please only commit and push
    the `Rmd` files. The rendered versions will be generated by the
    lesson maintainer to avoid merge conflicts.

5.  Send a pull request to the `gh-pages` branch of the
    `datacarpentry/R-ecology-lesson` repository for this lesson at http://github.com/datacarpentry/R-ecology-lesson

If it is easier for you to send edits to us some other way, please
mail us at [board@datacarpentry.org](mailto:board@datacarpentry.org).
Given a choice between you creating content or wrestling with Git,
we'd rather have you doing the former.


## File Locations and Formats

Each lesson is composed of files such as `00-before-we-start.Rmd`,
 `01-intro-to-r.Rmd` and so on. (We use two digits followed by a
 topic key to ensure files appear in the right order when listed.)

For the R material, lessons must be written in RMarkdown (ending in
`Rmd`). A Makefile converts the Rmd files into HTML that are
processed by Jekyll (the tool GitHub uses to create websites) as
explained in [the README file](README.md).

_Important Note:_ We use the `purl()` function from `knitr` to
generate a skeleton file that contains code to be distributed to
the workshop participants. This strategy is useful in particular
for error-prone pieces of code (e.g., if it contains long URLs). To
take full advantage, every line of code that should be included in
the handout **must** be enclosed in an `R` code chunk with
`purl=TRUE` in the chunk options. Further, to aid students' use of
the handout code, consider including explanatory comments. When
writing Challenges in particular, you may need to include redundant
comments and used the chunk option `echo=FALSE`. If in doubt
consult the `Rmd` files for examples.

## Datasets

We don't store data for lessons inside the lesson repositories. For
completed lessons the data should be publicly available in a data
repository appropriate to the data type. For lesson development the
data may be provided in any way that is convenient including
posting to a website, on [figshare](http://figshare.com/), a public
Dropbox link, a [GitHub gist](https://gist.github.com), or even
included in the PR. Once the PR is ready to merge the data should
be placed in the [official data repository](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1314459.v5)
and all links to the data updated.

## Formatting of the material

To ensure a consistent formatting of the lessons, we recommend the
following guidelines:

* No trailing white space
* Wrap lines at 80 characters (unless it breaks URLs)
* Use consistent capitalization (e.g., R not r, RStudio not rstudio
or Rstudio)
* Function names are written as `function()` while variables and
packages are written as `variable`
* Use unclosed atx style headers (see below):

```
## Use this format for headers

And not this format
-------------------
```

## FAQ

*   *Where can I get help?*
    <br/>
    Mail us at [board@datacarpentry.org](mailto:board@datacarpentry.org)
    or come chat with us on [our Gitter chat](https://gitter.im/data-carpentry/Lobby).
